Que 1. What is the difference between synchronous and asynchronous file operations?
Answer: 1) synchronous file operations block the execution of the program until the operation is complete 
while asynchronous file operation allows the program to cintinue executing while the file operation is being performed in the 
background.
2)synchronous file operation are easier to understand and debug but can lead to performance issue in large application 
while asynchronous file operation can inprove performance but can be more complex to implement and debug.

Que 2. When should you use file streams instead of reading the entire file?
Answer: file streams are more efficient for handling large files or when you want to process data in chunks. they allow you to read 
or write data increamently without loading the entire file into memory at once which can be beneficial for performance and memeory 
management. file streams are particularly useful when dealing with large files that may not fit into memory or when 
you wants to process data as it is being read or written, such as when working with real-time data or when you want to start processing 
data before the entire file is available.

Que 3. Explain the purpose of the ‘utf8’ encoding parameter in file operations.
Answer: the utf-8 encoding parameter is file operation is used to specify the charater encoding when raeding or writing Files. 
utf-8 is a widely used charater encoding that can represent a wide range of characters for different kanguages and symbols.
when you specify utf-8 encoding, it ensures that the text is correctly interpreted and stored, allowing for proper handling of
special characters and non-english text.

Ques 4. What are the common error codes in file system operations and what do they mean?
Answer:Common error codes in file system operations include:
    1) ENOENT: No such file or directory. This error occurs when the specified file or directory does not exist.
    2) EACCES: Permission denied. This error occurs when the user does not have the necessary permissions to access the file or directory.
    3) EEXIST: File already exists. This error occurs when trying to create a file that already exists.
    4) EISDIR: Is a directory. This error occurs when trying to perform a file operation on a directory.
    5) ENOTDIR: Not a directory. This error occurs when trying to perform a directory operation on a file.
    6) EROFS: Read-only file system. This error occurs when trying to write to a file on a read-only file system.


5. How would you safely delete a directory with all its contents?
Answer:to delete a directory with all its contents safely, you can use the rm command with the -r (recuresive option) and -f (force option).
SYNTAX:
rm -rf directory_name
this command will dlete the directory and all the content inside it without prompting for configuration. however be caution 
when using this command as it can lead to data loss if used incorrectly.


Ques 6. Explain the concept of piping in streams with an example.
Answer: Piping in streams is a method of connecting the output of one stream to the input of another stream. it allows data to flow from 
one stream to another without the need for intermediate storage or manual handling of data. this is particulary useful when 
working with large data sets or when you want to process data in contigueous manner.